hello welcome to our new support video
today we're going to be showing you how
to fill a prime a continuous ink system
for brother so this one is the LC 980 or
the LC 1100 or so this video also covers
the LC 9 8 5 and also this is an LC 1240
cartridge or healthy 1280 so although
the cartridges are a bit different the
principle of what I'm going to do is
exactly the same so to cut the video
time down I've already filled three of
the reservoirs I've just left this one
till last just to show you so what you
need to do is to start with you need to
remove both the plugs from the
continuous ink system and then with your
ink if it's our ink just remove the cap
off the top what you need to do is these
are all foil seal to maintain the
freshness so you need to get if you're
going to pour it in like me you need to
get a nice clean cut edge around this
around the side or alternatively you can
use the syringe and do it that way so
I'm going to get a clean cut edge there
we are and then I'm going to simply pour
it in so if you haven't got a steady
hand we recommend that you use the
syringe that we provide with the kit to
fill the system so I'm going to put the
whole 100 mil straight into the
reservoir
there we are so I've put that hundred
million so you can see at the moment the
incline for the yellow is completely
empty all the way to the reservoir so
what we need to do is we need to fill it
in Primus and we need to fill this
cartridge with ink so if we ever send an
empty continuous ink system we normally
say like a special adapter the adapter
it'll be a small white plastic piece
like this and then we do syringe now
what we're going to do is we're going to
put the adapter into the ink outlet port
of the cartridge so at the moment
there's a piece of plastic on here which
hasn't been perforated so it hasn't been
perforated because it hasn't been in the
printer yeah normally when it goes into
the printer that plastic is just
perforate it anyway so what we're going
to do is we're going to stab it in push
it down there are so inside the
cartridge is a small is a small spring
valve so ink won't start flowing until
that valve is pressed so what we're
going to do is we're going to press down
on the syringe to open up the valve
let's just move this ink line and then
we're going to draw back on the syringe
in your C being shooting down the line
and it's going to start to fill the
cartridge so sometimes you have to
repeat this maybe two or three times and
what you're looking for is you're gonna
keep the pressure on until it's no
longer rising
so once ink levels stop rising you're
going to take the syringe out expel the
air and then put it back in again and
just repeat the process so it's still
rising but it's gone very slow now so
we've lost pressure so I'm going to take
it out and then I'm just going to expel
the air and then pop it back in again
and then I'm going to repeat the process
so what you need to do is you just need
to keep doing it until you get a small
amount of ink in the syringe once you've
got a small amount of ink in there and
you know the system is fully primed then
we also need to start to come into the
syringe so I'm going to take that out
and you can see now that the cartridges
is fully primed that's ready to install
into your printer so I'm just going to
pop these back in now and then you can
proceed to install obviously if we've
supplied an empty one you'll repeat the
process with the four syringes for each
of the colors that that you need to do
and just remember that this video
applies to the LC 980 95 1100 and then
this different version of cartridge the
LC 1240 in the 1280 so yeah I'm the 1214
1280 you've still got you've still got
this valve here that needs to be
perforated for you to put in your
adapter and that's how you fill and
Prime the continuous ink system for this
range of brother printers thank you